Highly scalable and secure object storage.
Regional
Store unlimited amount of data and objects.
A single object can be up to 5TB in size.
use cases: media hosting, data lakes, static websites.

S3 supports multipart uploads. This allows users
to upload large objects as broken down smaller objects.
    Use cases: 
        Very large files
        Unstable network connection.

Storage Classes
    Standard
    Express One Zone - High performance single zone
    offering single digit milisecond data access.
    Infrequently accessed data
        Standard IA - Stores data redundantly across multiple
        AZs and could require rapid access when needed.
        
        Single AZ - Stores objects redundantly in one AZ.
        less resilient and cheaper.

        S3 Glacier - Long term data that is rarely accessed.
        However it does not to be accessed in can be accessed
        in milliseconds.
            Minimum storage duration - 90 days

        S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval - Data that needs to
        be retrieved in minutes.
            Minimum storage duration - 90 days

        S3 Deep Archieve - Data that rarely needs to be accessed.
        Can take 48 hours to get it.
            Minimum storage duration - 180 days
        
        Storage classes for unknown access patterns
            Moves data to the most cost effective tier with no
            performance impacts.

            Storage classes for unknown access
                Frequent Access
                Infrequent Access - have not be accessed in 30
                consecutive days.
                Archieve Instance Access - objects that have not
                been accessed in 90 consecutive days.

S3 Object versioning
    - Unversioned(default)
    - Versioning enabled (you cannot disable this on a bucket when it is on)

S3 Lifecycle Rule Example
    - Can transfer from S3 standard to S3 infrequent after 30 days.
    - Expire objects in bucket after 366 days.
    - Transition from non-current objects to standard IA
    - Transition compliance documents to glacier deep archieve after 365 days.
    - Expire developer data 30 days after it was created.

S3 Replication
    -You replicate from one bucket to another
    -Versioning must be on in order to do this.
    Concepts
        -Cross Region Replication
        -Same-Region Replication
        -Buckets dont need to be in the same account
        -IAM policy needs to be setup in order for
        replication to happen.

Better performance
    -If reads are spread out amongst different prefixes.
        - Example four prefixes
            /folder/subfolder1
            /folder2/subfolder2
            /folder3
            /folder4/subfolder4

    Byte Range Fetch
        Fetching a large object out of S3 bucket the 
        object can split into byte ranges that correspond
        to sections of the object.
        Much better delievery performance when doing this.

s3 Object Lock
    - Can store objects using a Write once read many model. (WORM)
    This prevents objects from being deleted or modified for 
    a fixed amount of time.
        Lock governance mode
            Average users cannot overwrite or delete and object version
            or change the lock settings.
            
            Can give users ability to alter retention settings of the
            s3 object.

s3 object lock compliance mode
    Protect object cannot be overwritten or deleted by any user.
    Object retention policy cannot be changed by changed by user.

Retention Periods
    Protects object version for a fixed amount of time.
    Timestamp stored in object metadata indicates when retention
    period will expire.


Misc
Buckets are private by default.
S3 objects can be made public by using ACLs
Bucket ACLs - an XML policy that manages access to bucket.
Bucket Policy - whole bucket can be made public using
bucket policy.
Bucket policy is favor over individual ACLs.
S3 access points are used to simplify access to s3 data.